# 🔎 InspecTree

InspecTree is a library for inspecting entire syntax trees of lambda functions in C#. [`Expression<T>`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.linq.expressions.expression-1) is commonly used for this purpose, but it is limited to single expressions unless you manually construct a [`BlockExpression`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.linq.expressions.blockexpression). InspecTree allows you to inspect entire syntax trees of lambda functions, including entire statement bodies.

## Quick example

This library was initially created with the intention of transpiling C# code to GLSL. Here's a small example of how to access the syntax tree of a lambda function to transpile it to GLSL.

```csharp
// Partial required due to source generator
// creating an overload in the same class
public partial class Program
{
  public static void Main(string[] args)
  {
    var glslCode = TranspileToGLSL(() => 
    {
      var x = 2 + 5f;
      var color = new Vector4(1.0f);

      if (x > 4)
      {
        color = new Vector4(0.2f, 0.3f, x, 1.0f);
      }

      return color;
    });
  }

  // Overload of this method is generated by source generator that
  // accepts a Func<Vector4>, and therefore accepts a lambda function
  public static string TranspileToGLSL(InspecTree<Func<Vector4>> shader)
  {
    var transpiler = new GLSLTranspiler();
    return transpiler.Transpile(shader.SyntaxTree);
  }
}
```

If you want a more complete example of where this is done, check out the [InspecTree.Example](src/InspecTree.Example/Program.cs) project.

## How it works

InspecTree uses two source generators to make it possible to access both the syntax tree and semantic model of a lambda.

- For each method that accepts an `InspecTree<Func<T>` parameter, it generates an overload that accepts a `Func<T>` parameter instead. This allows you to pass a lambda function to your method since there is no way to implicitly convert a lambda to a user-defined type.

- For each invocation to one of the generated overloads, it generates an interceptor method that will be invoked instead. This interceptor method will create an `InspecTree<Func<T>>` object from the `Func<T>` parameter and store the lambda function's syntax tree and semantic model.
